.TH TRACKER 1 "October 2025" "Version 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tracker \- work location tracking utility with calendar and statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tracker
[\fIOPTION\fR] [\fIARGUMENT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker
is a command-line tool for tracking daily work location designations with an intuitive flag-based interface. It provides colored calendar displays, interactive mode for bulk updates, statistics and reporting, and human-readable storage in plain text files.
.PP
The tool tracks seven location designations: HOME (work from home), LAB (work from lab), TRAVEL (work travel), WEEKEND, VACATION, HOLIDAY, and OTHER. Each designation has a single-letter code for quick reference.
.PP
When invoked without arguments, the tool displays the current month's calendar in a non-interactive mode. Use \fB--interactive\fR to enter interactive mode for bulk updates.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Location Setting Options
.TP
.BR \-\-home ", " \-\-h " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Set work from home designation. If no date is provided, uses today.
.TP
.BR \-\-lab ", " \-\-l " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Set work from lab designation. If no date is provided, uses today.
.TP
.BR \-\-travel ", " \-\-t " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Set work travel designation. If no date is provided, uses today.
.TP
.BR \-\-vacation ", " \-\-v " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Set vacation designation. If no date is provided, uses today.
.TP
.BR \-\-holiday ", " \-\-x " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Set holiday designation. If no date is provided, uses today.
.TP
.BR \-\-weekend ", " \-\-w " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Set weekend designation. If no date is provided, uses today.
.TP
.BR \-\-other ", " \-\-o " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Set other designation. If no date is provided, uses today.
.SS Display Options
.TP
.BR \-\-calendar ", " \-\-cal ", " \-\-c " [\fIPERIOD\fR]"
Display calendar view. PERIOD can be:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Current month (no argument)
.IP \(bu 2
Full year (YYYY format, e.g., 2025)
.IP \(bu 2
Specific month (YYYY-MM format, e.g., 2025-10)
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-stats ", " \-\-s " [\fIDAYS\fR]"
Show statistics for the specified number of days. Valid values are any positive integer, or "all" to show 30/90/365-day statistics. Default is 30 days.
.TP
.BR \-\-work\-summary ", " \-\-ws " [\fIDAYS\fR]"
Show work days summary for the specified number of days. Default is 30 days.
.TP
.BR \-\-get ", " \-\-g " [\fIDATE\fR]"
Get the designation for a specific date. If no date is provided, uses today.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color ", " \-\-nocolor
Disable colored output (useful for piping or non-color terminals).
.SS Data Management Options
.TP
.BR \-\-validate ", " \-\-val " [\fIYEAR\fR]"
Validate data integrity for the specified year. If no year is provided, validates current year.
.TP
.BR \-\-data\-dir " \fIDIRECTORY\fR"
Use a custom data directory instead of the default ./data location.
.SS Interactive Mode
.TP
.BR \-\-interactive ", " \-\-i
Start interactive mode for bulk updates and exploration.
.SH LOCATION DESIGNATIONS
.TS
tab(|);
l l l l.
Code|Name|Description|Default Days
_
H|HOME|Work From Home|Mon, Fri
L|LAB|Work From Lab|Tue, Wed, Thu
T|TRAVEL|Work Travel|\-
W|WEEKEND|Weekend|Sat, Sun
V|VACATION|Vacation|\-
X|HOLIDAY|Holiday|\-
O|OTHER|Other|\-
.TE
.SH DATE FORMAT
Dates must be specified in ISO 8601 format: YYYY-MM-DD (e.g., 2025-10-15).
.SH INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
In interactive mode, the following commands are available:
.TP
.B calendar [\fIPERIOD\fR]
Show calendar for current month, full year (YYYY), or specific month (YYYY-MM).
.TP
.B set \fIDATE\fR \fIDESIGNATION\fR
Set designation for a date. DESIGNATION can be the full name (HOME, LAB, etc.) or single-letter code (H, L, etc.).
.TP
.B get \fIDATE\fR
Get designation for a specific date.
.TP
.B stats [\fIDAYS\fR|\fBall\fR]
Show statistics for specified days or all periods (30/90/365).
.TP
.B work-summary [\fIDAYS\fR]
Show work days summary for specified number of days.
.TP
.B validate [\fIYEAR\fR]
Validate data integrity for specified year or current year.
.TP
.B help
Show help information.
.TP
.B quit
Exit interactive mode.
.SH DATA STORAGE
Data is stored in plain text files in the format:
.PP
.RS
.nf
data/YEAR.log
.fi
.RE
.PP
Each line contains:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Date in ISO format (YYYY-MM-DD)
.IP \(bu 2
ISO week number (WXX)
.IP \(bu 2
Full designation name (HOME, LAB, VACATION, etc.)
.RE
.PP
Example line:
.PP
.RS
.nf
2025-10-15|W42|HOME
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SEAT_TRACKER_DATA_DIR
Specifies the directory where data files are stored. If not set, defaults to ./data relative to the package location.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./data/YEAR.log
Location tracking data for each year.
.TP
.I ./conf/
Configuration files directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic Usage
View current month calendar (default behavior):
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set today's location to home:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --home
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set specific date to vacation:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --vacation 2025-12-25
.fi
.RE
.SS Calendar Views
View current month:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --calendar
.fi
.RE
.PP
View full year 2025:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --calendar 2025
.fi
.RE
.PP
View specific month without colors:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --calendar 2025-11 --no-color
.fi
.RE
.SS Statistics
Show 30-day statistics:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --stats
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show all period statistics (30/90/365 days):
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --stats all
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show work summary for last 90 days:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --work-summary 90
.fi
.RE
.SS Interactive Mode
Start interactive mode and set multiple dates:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --interactive
tracker> set 2025-10-20 HOME
tracker> set 2025-10-21 LAB
tracker> set 2025-10-22 LAB
tracker> calendar
tracker> quit
.fi
.RE
.SS Data Management
Validate current year's data:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --validate
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use custom data directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ tracker --data-dir ~/.seattracker --calendar
.fi
.RE
.SH FEATURES
.SS Auto-Populate Weekends
When setting a designation for any weekday, the tracker automatically adds Saturday and Sunday of that week as WEEKEND entries (if they don't already exist).
.SS Multi-Year Support
The tracker automatically handles multiple years with seamless cross-year queries and automatic file creation for new years.
.SS Color-Coded Display
Calendar output uses colors by default to improve readability:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Week numbers: Cyan
.IP \(bu 2
HOME: Green
.IP \(bu 2
LAB: Blue
.IP \(bu 2
TRAVEL: Magenta
.IP \(bu 2
WEEKEND: Dark gray
.IP \(bu 2
VACATION: Yellow
.IP \(bu 2
HOLIDAY: Red
.IP \(bu 2
OTHER: White
.IP \(bu 2
Current day: Bold
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error (invalid arguments, file I/O errors, etc.)
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
No external dependencies required \- uses Python 3.7+ standard library only.
.IP \(bu 2
Data files are human-readable and can be manually edited if needed.
.IP \(bu 2
Always run
.B --validate
after manual edits to ensure data integrity.
.IP \(bu 2
The tool uses ISO 8601 week numbering (weeks start on Monday).
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/anthropics/seat-tracker/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the seat-tracker project contributors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR python3 (1),
.BR cal (1),
.BR date (1)
.PP
Full documentation available in the README.md file included with the distribution.
